webapp/README.md, before:

# Copilot Chat Web App

> This learning sample is for educational purposes only and is not recommended for
> production deployments.

See [../README.md](../README.md) for complete instructions on setting up and running the application.

## How to use HTTPS for local development

If you want to run Copilot Chat with HTTPS, you need to create a certificate and sign it with a Certificate Authority (CA) that is trusted locally by your device and browser. You have a couple of options on how to do this:

1. (Recommended) Reusuing the [dotnet dev-certs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-dev-certs) generated for the webapi app

    > Note: the `dotnet dev-certs` command does not have a built-in option to generate a certificate for a specific IP address. It only generates a cert for `localhost`. If you need to use a specific IP address, use one of the two options below.

2. [mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert#installation): a simple tool for making locally-trusted development certificates; requires no configuration
3. [Azure KeyVault certificates](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/certificates/certificate-scenarios): you'll need to create the certificate in Key Vault using [Portal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/certificates/quick-create-portal), [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/certificates/quick-create-cli), or [Azure PowerShell](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/certificates/quick-create-powershell) and then download the cert and key files to use in step 2.

### Step 1: Creating the certificate

Option 1: Reusuing the [dotnet dev-certs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-dev-certs) generated for the webapi app.

1. Open a terminal and navigate to `webapi`.
1. Run

    ```
    dotnet dev-certs https -ep ../webapp/local-cert.crt --no-password --trust --format PEM
    ```

    This will create a certificate for `localhost`, trust it, and export it to a PEM file including the private key.

    > Note: The `--no-password` flag specifies that a password will not be used for the key on export. This is intended for testing use only.

1. The certificate and key are now exported as a pair of files in PEM format at the root of this directory (/webapp):
    - local-cert.crt
    - local-cert.key

Option 2: Using [mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert#installation)

1. From an elevated shell, run

    ### Windows

    On Windows, use [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/)

    ```
    choco install mkcert
    ```

    ### MacOS

    On macOS, use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)

    ```
    brew install mkcert
    ```

    For installation on Linux, other operating systems, and advanced topics (e.g., supported root stores), see the [official mkcert installation guide](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert#installation).

1. Create a new local certificate authority (CA) by running
    ```
    mkcert -install
    ```
1. Create a new certificate with all hostnames you wish to run the app on.

    > It is recommend you do this at the /webapp directory level.

    Run

    ```
    mkcert localhost 127.0.0.1 example.test
    ```

    You should see an output that looks like this:

    ```
    Created a new certificate valid for the following names 📜
        - "localhost"
        - "127.0.0.1"
        - "example.test"

    The certificate is at "./localhost+1.pem" and the key at "./localhost+1-key.pem" ✅

    It will expire on 1 September 2025
    ```

    > **Warning**: (from the developers of mkcert) the rootCA-key.pem file that mkcert automatically generates gives complete power to intercept secure requests from your machine. Do not share it.

### Step 2: Configuring Copilot Chat to use the certificate

1. In the webapp `.env` file, uncomment the following lines and populate with your respective certificate and key files generated in the step above.
    ```
    ...
    # To enable HTTPS, uncomment the following lines
    HTTPS="true"
    # Replace with your locally-trusted cert file
    SSL_CRT_FILE=local-cert.crt
    # Replace with your locally-trusted cert key
    SSL_KEY_FILE=local-cert.key
    ```
1. In the [webapi appsettings.json](../webapi/appsettings.json) file, find the `"AllowedOrigins"` section, and add the URLs (with ports!) that you'll be running the apps on with `https` prefixed. For instance, the `"AllowedOrigins"` section should look something like:
    ```
    ...
    // CORS
    "AllowedOrigins": [
        "http://localhost:3000",
        "https://localhost:3000",
        "https://127.0.0.1:3000",
    ],
    ...
    ```
1. Add the same URLs (with ports!) as single-page application (SPA) redirect URIs to your Azure Active Directory (AAD) application registration. This can be done in the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com).
1. Restart the `webapi` and `webapp` - Copilot Chat should be now running locally with HTTPS.

## Authentication

This sample uses the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for React to authenticate users.
Learn more about it here: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/tutorial-v2-react.

## Debug the web app

Aside from debugging within browsers, you can launch a debug session in Visual Studio.

1. Open the webapp folder (i.e.`webapp/`) in Visual Studio Code.
2. Go to "Run and Debug" and select on the "Launch Edge against localhost".
    > Go [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/typescript/typescript-debugging) to learn more about debugging client-code in Visual Studio Code.

## Serve a production build

By default, we run the app using `yarn start`, which starts a local development server. This enables some additional development behaviors and debuggings features, such as `React.StrictMode`, which will render the app twice to find bugs caused by impure rendering.

If you want to serve a production build of the `webapp` (as static files) without any development-specific features,

1. Run

    ```
    yarn build
    ```

    This will generate an optimized and minified production-ready build of the app in the `/build` directory.

2. Once the build is complete, and you have the `/build` directory, run

    ```
    yarn serve
    ```

    This will start the server and serve the production build. You should see an output similar to:

    ```
    Serving!
    - Local:    http://localhost:3000
    - Network:  http://192.168.0.100:3000
    ```

Commit message:

Update sub-readmes for getting started (#345)
### Motivation and Context

  1. Why is this change required? Confusion on getting-started abounds!
2. What problem does it solve? sub-readmes provided inconsistent basic
getting-started info.
3. What scenario does it contribute to? attempting to remove confusion
around getting started
4. If it fixes an open issue, please link to the issue here.
https://github.com/microsoft/chat-copilot/issues/344

### Description

This removes duplicate or incomplete information from the sub-readmes in
webapp/ and webapi/ on basic getting started. It redirects users to the
main instruction readme, and also points to the learn docs getting
started guide (which should be the ONLY duplicate of these
instructions).

This change does NOT:
- attempt to update detailed development or debug information on the
backend. That falls under a separate task.
- attempt to update the optional material. This pre-existing material
has not been tested and any updates fall under a separate task.
 
Therefore, there is an added "under development" section in the
sub-readmes to alert readers on potentially remaining out-of-date
material.


### Contribution Checklist

<!-- Before submitting this PR, please make sure: -->

- [x] The code builds clean without any errors or warnings
- [ ] The PR follows the [Contribution
Guidelines](https://github.com/microsoft/chat-copilot/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
and the [pre-submission formatting
script](https://github.com/microsoft/chat-copilot/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#development-scripts)
raises no violations
- [ ] All unit tests pass, and I have added new tests where possible
- [ ] I didn't break anyone :smile:

---------

Co-authored-by: Mollie Munoz <momuno@microsoft.com>

webapp/README.md, after:

# Chat Copilot front end web application

This directory contains the source code for Chat Copilot's frontend web application. The backend web API service component can be found in the [webapi/](../webapi/) directory.

## Running the Chat Copilot sample
To configure and run the full Chat Copilot application, please view the [main instructions](../README.md#instructions).

# (Under Development)
The following material is under development and may not be complete or accurate.

## How to use HTTPS for local development

If you want to run Copilot Chat with HTTPS, you need to create a certificate and sign it with a Certificate Authority (CA) that is trusted locally by your device and browser. You have a couple of options on how to do this:

1. (Recommended) Reusuing the [dotnet dev-certs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-dev-certs) generated for the webapi app

    > Note: the `dotnet dev-certs` command does not have a built-in option to generate a certificate for a specific IP address. It only generates a cert for `localhost`. If you need to use a specific IP address, use one of the two options below.

2. [mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert#installation): a simple tool for making locally-trusted development certificates; requires no configuration
3. [Azure KeyVault certificates](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/certificates/certificate-scenarios): you'll need to create the certificate in Key Vault using [Portal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/certificates/quick-create-portal), [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/certificates/quick-create-cli), or [Azure PowerShell](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/certificates/quick-create-powershell) and then download the cert and key files to use in step 2.

### Step 1: Creating the certificate

Option 1: Reusuing the [dotnet dev-certs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-dev-certs) generated for the webapi app.

1. Open a terminal and navigate to `webapi`.
1. Run

    ```
    dotnet dev-certs https -ep ../webapp/local-cert.crt --no-password --trust --format PEM
    ```

    This will create a certificate for `localhost`, trust it, and export it to a PEM file including the private key.

    > Note: The `--no-password` flag specifies that a password will not be used for the key on export. This is intended for testing use only.

1. The certificate and key are now exported as a pair of files in PEM format at the root of this directory (/webapp):
    - local-cert.crt
    - local-cert.key

Option 2: Using [mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert#installation)

1. From an elevated shell, run

    ### Windows

    On Windows, use [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/)

    ```
    choco install mkcert
    ```

    ### MacOS

    On macOS, use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)

    ```
    brew install mkcert
    ```

    For installation on Linux, other operating systems, and advanced topics (e.g., supported root stores), see the [official mkcert installation guide](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert#installation).

1. Create a new local certificate authority (CA) by running
    ```
    mkcert -install
    ```
1. Create a new certificate with all hostnames you wish to run the app on.

    > It is recommend you do this at the /webapp directory level.

    Run

    ```
    mkcert localhost 127.0.0.1 example.test
    ```

    You should see an output that looks like this:

    ```
    Created a new certificate valid for the following names 📜
        - "localhost"
        - "127.0.0.1"
        - "example.test"

    The certificate is at "./localhost+1.pem" and the key at "./localhost+1-key.pem" ✅

    It will expire on 1 September 2025
    ```

    > **Warning**: (from the developers of mkcert) the rootCA-key.pem file that mkcert automatically generates gives complete power to intercept secure requests from your machine. Do not share it.

### Step 2: Configuring Copilot Chat to use the certificate

1. In the webapp `.env` file, uncomment the following lines and populate with your respective certificate and key files generated in the step above.
    ```
    ...
    # To enable HTTPS, uncomment the following lines
    HTTPS="true"
    # Replace with your locally-trusted cert file
    SSL_CRT_FILE=local-cert.crt
    # Replace with your locally-trusted cert key
    SSL_KEY_FILE=local-cert.key
    ```
1. In the [webapi appsettings.json](../webapi/appsettings.json) file, find the `"AllowedOrigins"` section, and add the URLs (with ports!) that you'll be running the apps on with `https` prefixed. For instance, the `"AllowedOrigins"` section should look something like:
    ```
    ...
    // CORS
    "AllowedOrigins": [
        "http://localhost:3000",
        "https://localhost:3000",
        "https://127.0.0.1:3000",
    ],
    ...
    ```
1. Add the same URLs (with ports!) as single-page application (SPA) redirect URIs to your Azure Active Directory (AAD) application registration. This can be done in the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com).
1. Restart the `webapi` and `webapp` - Copilot Chat should be now running locally with HTTPS.

## Authentication

This sample uses the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for React to authenticate users.
Learn more about it here: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/tutorial-v2-react.

## Debug the web app

Aside from debugging within browsers, you can launch a debug session in Visual Studio.

1. Open the webapp folder (i.e.`webapp/`) in Visual Studio Code.
2. Go to "Run and Debug" and select on the "Launch Edge against localhost".
    > Go [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/typescript/typescript-debugging) to learn more about debugging client-code in Visual Studio Code.

## Serve a production build

By default, we run the app using `yarn start`, which starts a local development server. This enables some additional development behaviors and debuggings features, such as `React.StrictMode`, which will render the app twice to find bugs caused by impure rendering.

If you want to serve a production build of the `webapp` (as static files) without any development-specific features,

1. Run

    ```
    yarn build
    ```

    This will generate an optimized and minified production-ready build of the app in the `/build` directory.

2. Once the build is complete, and you have the `/build` directory, run

    ```
    yarn serve
    ```

    This will start the server and serve the production build. You should see an output similar to:

    ```
    Serving!
    - Local:    http://localhost:3000
    - Network:  http://192.168.0.100:3000
    ```
